# Initial Meeting with Potential Supervisor Professor Mahalec

Attendees:

- Ahmet Dumlu
- Anthony Hunt
- Mutaz Helal
- Youcef Boumar

Duration: 11:30 am - 1:30 pm

## Summary

This meeting involved discussions between our group and Dr. Mahalec's research team regarding the proposed project #8: "User Interface and Model Version Management for Models of Industrial Plants Represented by a Network of Nodes and Arcs". A majority of the meeting was spent learning about Dr. Mahalec's research and requirements surrounding this project.

## Notes

- High level requirements:
  - A graph-based GUI that can model the operations of a chemical plant efficiently and effectively for large datasets
    - Connected components with layered views
      - Ex. Zoom in/out on subsections of a graph for more/less details
    - Fine tuned control over the graph, including placement of nodes and connections, shapes of nodes, and the type of nodes
    - Nodes should accept variable parameters
    - Ability to store and retrieve model layouts for post-processing
      - May include the processing work in our project?
        - Grad students have already started scripts for this
    - Consideration for non-static (dynamic) node parameters (ex. the fluctuating price of electricity over time)
      - Dependent vs. independent variables
      - Change in dependent vars as a result of some change in independent vars
        - Ex. Change of cost over time as electricity price changes over time
    - Each node should have a side panel/drop down/pop-up dialogue with more config details
      - Something like draw.io
    - Want to be able to add/save/fetch/export nodes and models
    - Nodes should be generic and dynamic, built from the data provided
      - In other words, the researchers should be able to create their own nodes following a specific schema

Major hurdle: organizing data in a simple and usable manner

- Ease the burden of users and developers alike
- Will need a database for creating nodes and storing configured models

Idea for node organization structure:

```json
{
  "node_templates": [
    {
      "type": "node_template",
      "id": 123,
      "name": "test node",
      "shape": "circle",
      "parameters": {
        "p1": "str",
        "p2": "int"
      },
      "ports": [
        {
          "location": "top_right",
          "type": "output",
          "connecting_types": ["input"]
        }
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```
